- Enterprise Java Beans, or EJBs,
are another API within Java EE
that provide a standard component architecture
for building object-oriented business applications.
An EJB is a reusable Java object
that runs in a special runtime environment
known as an EJB container.
In the past EJBs needed to be accompanied by XML,
or they needed to adopt a certain signature.
But they've been greatly simplified
in the latest versions of Java EE and have adopted
a POJO-based approach that uses annotations.
EJBs typically handle the application logic
that supports business operations for a system,
so you will typically find centralized processing logic
that interacts with the database.
This centralizes the system's business logic
so that it can be reused by multiple clients.
Because EJBs are managed in a container
EJBs can benefit from additional services,
such as transactions, connection pooling,
or multithreading without writing explicit code.
When architecting a system with EJBs
an interface is defined for the EJB
and an implementation is built.
The EJBs often handle core logic
and concerns like data persistence.
The EJB implementation runs inside of the EJB container
and is injected into other Java EE components,
such as JSF backing beans or servlets
through a JNDI lookup of the EJB.
Once the EJB is injected into these components
they can leverage the business services contained within EJB
and benefit from the container-provided services.
This pulls core business logic out of components
running in the web tier
so they can be centralized and reused.
EJB has a long history with Java EE,
and early versions of EJB were known to be quite complex
requiring a substantial amount of XML
to be written by the developer.
As EJBs have matured they have become much simpler to use
and deploy, mainly due to the annotation-based support
introduced in EJB 3.0.
I mentioned that EJBs can benefit from services
provided by the container,
here's a look at those services.
When using EJBs we get features such as transactions,
security, concurrency, networking, and persistence
from the EJB container out of the box,
and developers don't have to write out explicit code
that handles these concerns.
At a high level there are two types of EJBs,
Session Beans and Message Driven Beans.
Session Beans contain reusable application logic
for our system and can be used by the client
to perform core business operations.
For example, an e-commerce application
may have a Session Bean that manages
the shopping cart interface for each client of the bean.
Message Driven Beans are stateless components
that run on the server side for processing messages
delivered by the Java Messaging Service, or JMS.
Let's see some of these concepts in action
as we dive into the hands-on lessons.
There are three distinct types of Session Beans
that can be used in our applications.
Stateful Session Beans are unique for every client
and can contain state between calls
that is specific to each client.
Stateless Session Beans are not associated to the client
and do not maintain any state specific to the client.
Singleton Session Beans are instantiated
once per the entire application,
and any state within them is shared
across all clients of the Singleton Bean.
We'll see these concepts in action
as we start to get hands on with EJBs.